Pallavi was shredding carrots at the dining room table. "Shut your mouth, woman," screamed Kumar uncle. His face betrayed a slight tremor while I hastily constructed a memory of spit flying and words cutting through the air in slow motion. "We were talking and you'd better mind your business." 

"Let's move to the hall," I suggested, noticing Michael's poker face contrasted with the sadness in Sariga's eyes. Uncle mumbled something as he drifted away, past Mathew's excitement and Peter's day dream. I filled my glass in the kitchen and apologised to Kumudh aunty. Spotting a packet of jujips on the fridge, I offered her one in an attempt to placate my guilt. She looked at me briefly and refused, politely, before looking back down at the bowl she was mixing. 

I chewed on one and offered the packet around the table. Had to skip Pramod, but I don't think he minded. Mathew asked for another one. "All gone," I said, opening my hand to show him the crumpled packet. The sugar that had fallen off the sweets shook themselves against the plastic. Uncle was in the background again, words unsaid traced across his face.

On the couch, Pramod kept his eyes on the tv while Kumar uncle spoke over him. "You see these tribals have no concept of ownership of land." "Like water and air," I assumed aloud. "So when the British came, it was easy to demarcate what was Government land. Now it's the government that sells the land to the large industries, all across Bihar, Orissa, Bengal." I wonder why I didn't suggest that industries imply employment.

We rattled past landfills on our way back from their house, where Pallavi had had a shower, and Pramod had picked up the large bowl and aunty's old iddiyappam maker. "They say you can bury all of earth's garbage in a big enough hole, and cover it with soil." Pramod nodded in agreement before opening his mouth as if to point out something. "Plastic is just like rock, when you think of it; the trees will grow." "Where would you find large holes," he quickly said. "All those old quarries, just fill them up with the garbage from these landfills, put enough soil on top and you have a nice forest."

Instead, I said "Just like the native Americans, haha." "And look where they are now, cornered into the smallest possible land." "Did you know about their casinos? People cross into the reservations to gamble, and the taxes aren't like Las Vegas. They make their money, but there's a culture of alcohol and violence and it isn't policed well either."

Michael walked in from the dining room, amiably, to see what was on the tv. Kumar uncle was standing now, telling Pramod that the travel agent industry was going to crash. "You see, originally the travel agents commission was fifteen percent! then ten percent, you see?" Pramod nodded. "Now you get five percent? People are just shopping around for the lowest price online."

"They don't believe in marketing, you should see our website: no way to book, nothing." I immediately suggested Google Adwords, "you only pay when they visit your site, I'll set you up with one in five minutes. Put your phone number on the ad, choose to display it only when someone searches for tours in India -- or tours abroad in India -- and just see if you get any calls. Doesn't have to be official, it will be like you got it yourself."

"You should get him some contacts in IT, they all have some corporate social responsibility, I know Wipro has already fixed it, but some other company," he trailed off. None of us could see where this was going. Michael nodded, but backed out into the dining room. I was now sprawled across the couch but couldn't make out what was playing. "Everyone has a solution, huh."

Pramod kept his eyes on the tv while Kumar uncle spoke over us. "I tell you, I spoke to him the other day and he said they wouldn't be investing for at least another two months, eh heh, now look at the news, they've bought the whole thing, eh heh, he said he'd come down and visit but I told him clearly: There is no ac at home, I will not allow it, eh heh."

The train pulled into the station early in the morning. I was awake well before dawn broke, insomnia keeps you intimately aware of who gets off where and who's staring at whom. My friend from last night stared blank at the looming wind turbines. There were more turbines than people I would meet this trip. Each as big as the next, each as uniform as the other. And in the midst of this herd was a lonely turbine on the ground beside its tower. Waiting to be lifted up, to be placed in the wind. My friend told me he worked at the YMCA, that he knew of the concert I had missed, that I didn't really have to pay the fine for not carrying my original drivers licence. My friend had called me sir and I didn't know his name. 

Kumar uncle was waiting for us in the car park. I met Michael first, a warm smile of welcome while we waited for Pallavi and Pramod to catch up with us in this river of people on a walkway above the tracks. We waved, watching their bags struggle toward us. Right there outside the building was the car. I put my bass and my backpack of books in the trunk. I hadn't yet realised how optimistic carrying them had been. Pallavi and Pramod kept their backpacks with them. Wait, said Kumar uncle, as he loaded his new carton of cigarettes. 

"Buffalo," he yelled at the window between him and an SUV lurching out of a house and taking its time to cross the road. The driver, seeing his eyes, pulled alongside and rolled down his window. "Did your grandfather give you your license?" "Yes he did, what are you going to do about it." The two old men heaved slowly, the insults they had long learnt hurling inside and betraying their memory. We were almost at the studio. Kumar uncle's dad was slowly cutting down the obstacle ahead, slowly climbing the steep stairs, slowly but surely, slowly but refusing help. And what could we do. Mathew was delighted. He loves climbing stairs, and did so several times, gently pushing our legs out of his way. My favourite photo had him laughing at my silly face, facing the wrong way, life in the very still family portrait. 

He was quite sick the next night. His cries woke us up and Pallavi went upstairs to help Sariga. Michael had left to get back to work. There had been a great storm in the evening. The roads sank into the mud. Pramod had leaped back from the window overlooking the terrace. Lightning so close it could kill you, he said. Pallavi had spread her hands as if to catch all the joy she could, all the joy soaking us from above. Mathew did not like the storm. He put on his brave face. To see fear glimpse out of a child is to feel a love you've not shown. He threw up all night, all over the bedroom. They ran out of clean sheets to lay him down on after his bouts. Kumar uncle and I headed up with more sheets. We stood around helpless. Tired, Sariga snapped at her father. Pallavi gently stroked Mathew's head when my hand was no longer of comfort. 

We walked through the night, Pramod's sandals uneasily small for my feet, Kumar uncle's lungi held tight. There was barely enough light to see, but there were others out, all grouped by light: the street lights above and the lights in the shops still open, so meagre against the sky and the black road. We moved between them, our eyes fixed on the next light, the stars quietly watching from above. The last pharmacy sold the liquid paracetamol Sariga had demanded, and we headed back. 

Pramod looked at us in his sleep as we climbed up the winding stairs. The metal creaked and I had to mind my head. Our duties done, there was nothing to do but to leave the tired child with his mother and aunt and descend to our personal insomnias. I lay down and Kumar uncle moved about. Earlier in the evening it was with a glass in hand. It's always with a glass in hand, cigarette poking out. It's hard to call it pacing. He just moves about. He doesn't hover, he doesn't drift between conversations. He carries the conversation about. He carries it about us. He carries it at night when there is no one to talk to. He carries it when no one else will.

Kumar uncle has a friend, Viju uncle. They are very similar. It makes you wonder if that is friendship. They like to talk. Not to each other, no, and not quite to anyone else either. They carry similar burdens. They drive the same way. They drink the same way, and smoke the same way. Which is to say they carry conversations the same way. Very similar conversations, of course, weaving about each other while their owners weave about us. Sheila aunty brought a bucket and spade when we went to the beach, and snacks. None of us had thought of that. Mathew was entertained until Sariga could accept the idea of him venturing near the water with Michael. We didn't have to converse while we watched them approach the waves. There were boulders on the sides of this little beach, and the waves were large and loud. It was late in the evening and the sun was low. Orange and pink and big at the same time. The tide crept up while we watched the sunset. We ate ice creams just up from the beach, in the dark, sticky bars of pink and white that dripped sideways in the breeze. And so we ate quietly, separated by this sweet spray, while the sea roared in the background. 

Pallavi was dead hungry, she said, after her shower. And so, I said, was I. Pramod stopped outside a small shop and tilted his seat all the way back. We got out and navigated the black wet mud between the road and the shop. "Pallam?" asked Pallavi, a little tentative. The lady produced the huge kind, and Pallavi had only wanted one. I hastily said I would share it with her. One banana was pulled off and the rest were placed on the clear display of the ice cream freezer. I have a fascination for Kwality Walls' Jiggly Jelly ice cream sticks, an almost inappropriate fascination. They had a whole bunch. "Not before breakfast," said Pallavi, before heading back in resignation. Pramod had put his hands behind his head with his eyes closed. The shop is a short walk from the apartment complex, so I enjoyed my ice cream in the shop and in the car and in the car park and in the lobby and the lift. I hid the stick behind me when we entered the flat. Mathew was delighted anyway. He likes his aunt and uncle. There were packets on the table, paper packets wrapped in string. "There are more poories, children," said Kumudh aunty. She was still in the kitchen. Her hands were still in a bowl. I dropped my stick into the garbage bag, quietly, and joined Pramod at the table. Kumar uncle hadn't eaten yet. 

